README.md, before:

# SF Food Truck Finder Web App Project Plan

## Project Goal

Develop a web application that allows users to find food trucks in San Francisco using a CSV dataset.

## Getting Started

This is a [Next.js App Router build](https://nextjs.org/docs/app).

## Deployment

The app is deployed on Vercel and can be accessed at [https://sf-food-truck.samfort.in/](https://sf-food-truck.samfort.in/). The production site is deployed automatically when a PR is merged into the `main` branch.

The staging site can be accessed at [https://sf-food-truck-staging.samfort.in/](https://sf-food-truck-staging.samfort.in/). The staging site is deployed automatically when a PR is merged into the `develop` branch.

## Testing

This app is setup to run Jest tests. To run the tests, run the following command:

```bash
npm run test
```

The Jest extension https://marketplace.cursorapi.com/items?itemName=Orta.vscode-jest is recommended for assistance with running tests.

## Debugging

You can debug the app by running the following command by makig sure the .vscode/launch.json file is set up correctly. In VSCode, you can run the Debugger by clicking the debug button in the sidebar, selecting one of the debug options, and then clicking the green play button.

## Linting

This app is setup to run ESLint. To run the linter, run the following command:

```bash
npm run lint
```

## API

### Get Food Truck Data

`/api/food-trucks`

Returns a list of all food trucks.

### Get Food Truck Data by Food Type

`/api/food-trucks?foodType=pizza`

Include a `foodType` query parameter to filter the food trucks by food type. See `/src/data/food-types.ts` for a list of valid food types.

Commit message:

add and connect redis db

README.md, after:

# SF Food Truck Finder Web App Project Plan

## Project Goal

Develop a web application that allows users to find food trucks in San Francisco using a CSV dataset.

## Getting Started

This is a [Next.js App Router build](https://nextjs.org/docs/app).

## Deployment

The app is deployed on Vercel and can be accessed at [https://sf-food-truck.samfort.in/](https://sf-food-truck.samfort.in/). The production site is deployed automatically when a PR is merged into the `main` branch.

The staging site can be accessed at [https://sf-food-truck-staging.samfort.in/](https://sf-food-truck-staging.samfort.in/). The staging site is deployed automatically when a PR is merged into the `develop` branch.

## Testing

This app is setup to run Jest tests. To run the tests, run the following command:

```bash
npm run test
```

The Jest extension https://marketplace.cursorapi.com/items?itemName=Orta.vscode-jest is recommended for assistance with running tests.

## Debugging

You can debug the app by running the following command by makig sure the .vscode/launch.json file is set up correctly. In VSCode, you can run the Debugger by clicking the debug button in the sidebar, selecting one of the debug options, and then clicking the green play button.

## Linting

This app is setup to run ESLint. To run the linter, run the following command:

```bash
npm run lint
```

## Database and Environment Variables

This app is using a Redis KV database to store the food truck data. The data is loaded from a CSV file and then stored in Redis. The data is then queried using Redisearch.

To bring in the evironment variables for the database locally, follow these steps.

1. You will need to first be a collaborator on the project.
2. Install the Vercel CLI `npm i -g vercel@latest`
3. Link the project `vercel link`
4. Pull the environment variables `vercel env pull .env.development.local`

## API

### Get Food Truck Data

`/api/food-trucks`

Returns a list of all food trucks.

### Get Food Truck Data by Food Type

`/api/food-trucks?foodType=pizza`

Include a `foodType` query parameter to filter the food trucks by food type. See `/src/data/food-types.ts` for a list of valid food types.
